CodeQL: Python topics (2166) - WIP (#2823)
Semmle/ql: docs/language/learn-ql/python/introduce-libraries-python.rst

CodeQL library for Python
=========================

> Overview of the extensive library you use to analyze databases generated from Python code bases. This library uses classes with abstractions and predicates to present the data in an object-oriented form. This abstraction makes it easier for you to write queries.

Author: ```suggestion
This is an overview of the extensive library you use to analyze databases generated from Python code bases. Using this library makes it easier for you to write queries.
```

About the CodeQL library for Python
-----------------------------------

> The CodeQL library for each programming language is implemented as a set of QL modules, that is, files with the extension ``.qll``. The module ``python.qll`` imports all the core Python library modules, so you can include the complete library by beginning your query with:

Author: ```suggestion
The CodeQL library for each programming language uses classes with abstractions and predicates to present data in an object-oriented form. This abstraction makes it easier for you to write queries.

Each CodeQL library is implemented as a set of QL modules, that is, files with the extension ``.qll``. The module ``python.qll`` imports all the core Python library modules, so you can include the complete library by beginning your query with:
```

CodeQL library for Python

> =========================

Author: Hmm. This suggests lots of other changes to this topic for consistency.

> =========================

Reviewer: Stick with libraries. We'll update the other language topics accordingly.

> =========================

Author: On balance, the more that I read this topic, the more convinced I am that it ought to be "library" - I think you're right that we should standardize on this, one way or the other. I'm going to leave this as-is for now pending that discussion.

> =========================

Reviewer: On second thoughts, I think 'libraries' is consistent with what happens when you include `import python` in your query--although there is a single import statement, several `.qll` files (library files) are made available to use in the query. Not a big deal, but I agree we should  merge now, standardize later.

> =========================

Author: Sorry - spotted this after I merged it. It's more than just a title though - we are inconsistent within the documentation in how we refer to things. I think of a language library being made up of a series of library files, each of which defines a library module.

> =========================

Author: It seems as if I'm probably in a minority.

> When you need to analyze a Python program, you can make use of the large collection of classes in the Python library for CodeQL.

Author: Thanks for picking this up, but your suggestion has a typo. I suggest this:

```suggestion
When you need to analyze a Python program, you can make use of the large collection of classes in the CodeQL libraries for Python.
```

About the CodeQL library for Python
-----------------------------------

> The CodeQL library for each programming language uses classes with abstractions and predicates to present data in an object-oriented form. This abstraction makes it easier for you to write queries.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps remove the final sentence? That avoids duplicating "makes it easier for you to write queries."

Author: ```suggestion
The CodeQL library for each programming language uses classes with abstractions and predicates to present data in an object-oriented form.
```

➤ `See this in the query console <https://lgtm.com/query/690010036/>`__. Many projects include pass-only ``except`` blocks.

Summary

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Author: ```suggestion
^^^^^^^
```

Summary
^^^^^^^

- `TaintKind <https://help.semmle.com/qldoc/python/semmle/python/dataflow/TaintTracking.qll/type.TaintTracking$TaintKind.html>`__
- `Configuration <https://help.semmle.com/qldoc/python/semmle/python/dataflow/Configuration.qll/type.Configuration$TaintTracking$Configuration.html>`__

> For more information about these classes, see ":doc:`Analyzing data flow and tracking tainted data in Python <taint-tracking>`".

Author: Blast - I thought that I'd found all of those...
